# Default Context

The following variables are available in the default context. You can think these variable as metadata. In `relno-cli`, you can use `--metadata` (or `-m`) option to pass these variables.

::alert{type="warning"}
These variables are only available when you are using `relno-action`. If you are using `relno-cli`, you can pass these variables by using `--metadata` (or `-m`) option.
::

## `authorLogin`

The release author's login (GitHub username).

## `authorName`

The release author's name (could be set in GitHub profile). If the user has not set the name, it will be an empty string.

## `authorEmail`

The release author's email. It will be an empty string most of the time.

## `createdAt`

The release created time. It would provided as a UTC time. You can use `formatDate` macro to format it.

## `discussionUrl`

The release discussion url. It will be an empty string if the release hasn't linked to any discussion.

## `htmlUrl`

The release html url (GitHub release page).

e.g. `https://github.com/ppodds/relno/releases/tag/v0.0.1-alpha.1`

## `id`

The action id of the triggered workflow.

## `name`

The release name. It could be an empty string.

## `publishedAt`

The release published time. It would provided as a UTC time. You can use `formatDate` macro to format it.

## `tagName`

The release tag name.

## `fromVersion`

The version which the release is from.

## `tarballUrl`

The release tarball url.

## `targetCommitish`

The release target commitish.

## `zipballUrl`

The release zipball url.

## `compareUrl`

The release compare url.

e.g. `https://github.com/ppodds/relno/compare/v0.0.1-alpha.1...v0.0.1-alpha.2`
